I confess I don't know what sort of thing this essay is, so my ability to critique is constrained. The only broad criticism I have is that you were a bit too quick to use first person plural in your observations, giving some claims a universality they don't possess.

With the essay so reliant on footnotes, you should watch out for tonal clashes in adjacent ones. Some readers (like me) will unconsciously read ahead when there's another footnote available. This caused a severe clash going from 52 to 53. Also, with the first document reader I used on my phone, the footnote number were so small that I missed them most of the time, so bumping their size up would be nice.

A couple places you wrote something like "Ask a poet" or "Ask a biologist." To me, this came off as curt and dismissive rather than glib and playful.

There were a few places where you used a metaphor, then paused to mention how bad the metaphor is. Better to just not use it, even if it complements the overall "spiral" metaphor.

Appeals to authority, like in the first footnote, should carry citations. Though if you're confident in this claim you could just leave out the mention of scientists.

Footnote 16: I feel this information should be omitted.

Footnote 17: Well, I did this with you. >>

Footnote 55: There's a native Dallas grass that springs up hip-high in April, then falls over dead in late May. This strikes me as wise rather than tragic; this grass knows when it best thrives.

Footnote 64: Oh, my half a philosophy degree proves useful again. In academia, "performative" is a technical term whose meaning is at odds with its outside use. The term was coined by J. L. Austin, then developed further by Judith Butler. Roughly, it refers to what an utterance does, as opposed to what it means. Somehow, outside of academia it came to mean "theatrical" or "artificial," and I suggest using one of those words as a replacement.

Okay, that's all I have. If this was one of my editing contracts I would be sweating at the skimpy feedback, but thankfully they don't send me papers from within the humanities!
